.TH EBOTULA 1 "10 March 03"
.SH NAME
ebotula \- IRC bot
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBebotula\fP [ options ]
.SH DESCRIBTION
\fIEbotula\fP is a irc bot for general tasks in one or more channels. These
tasks are the user and channel administration. He (the bot) can save the channel
topic and modes. Also the modes of the user are set and saved by the bot.
.SS Options
There are two ways to set the options for the bot:
Either you pass the options via command line or you use the
configuration file (standard is /etc/ebotula.conf, you can alter this by
the paramter -f). Parameters given in the command line are prior to
those in the configuration file.
.TP
\fB-a\fP days
sets the limit for the automatic logoff in days
.TP
\fB-b\fP name
sets the nickname of the bot
.TP
\fB-c\fP sec
sets the limit for ping timeout
.TP
\fB-d\fP path
sets the path to the directory for the databases
.TP
\fB-f\fp file
sets a custom configuration file
.TP
\fB-h, -?\fP
shows the help text and exit
.TP
\fB-k\fP days
sets the live time of an account in days
.TP
\fB-m\fP
enables the dialog for creating a new master
.TP
\fB-n\fP ms
sets the sending delay time in millisecond
.TP
\fB-p\fP port
sets the portnumber for connecting
.TP
\fB-r\fP string
sets a string for the realname field of the bot
.TP
\fB-s\fP server
sets the irc servername the bot connects to
.TP
\fB-t\fP number
sets the ammount of parallel working command threads
.TP
\fB-v\fP
show the version and exit
.SS Access levels
The bot has four access levels. This levels represent the privilege of the
access to the bot. 
.PP
The levels are:
.TP
\fBmaster\fP
This level is used for the adimistrator of the bot. He has complete access to all
functions and gets operator access in all channels the bot is in.
.TP
\fBchannel owner\fP
This means that the user is administrator of a channel. A user can be an administrator
in more than one channel, but it must set explicitly for any channel.
.TP
\fBfriend\fP
A friend is a user with automatic voice. He has not realy extended access rights.
It is a nice feature to show which persons are seen fain in a channel.
.TP 
\fBothers\fP
These are all other people which aren't logged on.
.SS Commands
The bot has a lot of commands for the work and manipulation in one or more
channels. There is an online help for this bot. You can get a simple list of
all commands or detailed information about a special command. 
.PP
The following is a list of all supported commands and a little
describtion to each command:
.TP
\fB!die\fP
shuts the bot down
.TP
\fB!greeting\fP < #channel > [ message ]
Sets the greeting line displayed for users joining. If #channel is
given, the greeting of the corresponding channel ist set. Otherwise the
greeting of the current channel is set.
.TP
\fB!help\fP [ command ]
If given without a parameter, !help lists all commands the bot
understands. Any existing command can be used as parameter for !help. If so,
detailed information about the selected command is displayed.
.TP
\fB!restart\fP
shuts the bot down and restarts it again
.TP
\fB!say\fP < #channel > [ message ]
sends the message to the current or selected channel. One could say, the
bots talks into the channel.
.TP
\fB!topic\fP < #channel > [ topic ]
sets the topic for the current or selected channel
.TP
\fB!version\fP
prints the version of the bot
.TP
\fB!viewgreet\fP < #channel >
If #channel is given, this command shows the greeting line from the
selected channel. Otherwise the greeting of the current channel is
displayed.
.TP
\fB!kick\fP < #channel > username
If the parameter #channel is used, the given user is "kicked" (removed)
from the corresponding channel. Otherwise the user is kicked from the
current channel. Only bot masters and channel administrators can kick
other users. They have to authenticate themself at the bot before
kicking any user. NOTE: masters can not be kicked (even by other
masters).
.SH FILES
ebotula, ebotula.conf
.SH "SEE ALSO"
RFC1459, RFC2810, RFC2811, RFC2812, ebotula.conf(5)
.SH AUTHORS
Steffen Laube <realebula@gmx.de>,
Thomas Stein <linux@tstein.net>,
Uwe Stremple <u.strempel@gmx.de>
.SH VERSION
v0.2b
.SH BUGS
He isn't finished and not completely stable.
